---
title: "How to Reach Out for Research Opportunities"
date: 2023-12-03
---

As I establish my research group within the SDS at UVA, I will offer opportunities for student research assistants at various academic levels, including undergraduate, master's, and Ph.D. students, and Postdoctral positions. 

In this post, I'd like to share some tips on how to effectively reach out for research opportunities and maximize your chances in an email. 

In general, you will need to address the following aspects:
* Title: Be concise!

   If you want to join my group, you can consider use one of the following:
  * Undergraduate RA Application:[Your Name and Department]
  * Master RA Application: [Your Name and Department]
  * Prospective Ph.D. Student: [Your Name and Major]<sup>**</sup>
  * Postdoctoral Application: [Your Name and Major]
  * Summer Research Project: [Your Name]
* At the begining of the email, briefly introduce yourself:
  Here are some contents you could consider. 2~3 sentences are enough.
  * Undergrads: Mention your year, major/minor, courses taken that you think are relevant to the research area.
  * Master & (prospective) PhD student: Provide information about your education background, a broad skillset, and any research experience you may have.
  * Postdoc application: Include details about your education background, research mentor, expected graduation/starting date.
* In the second paragraph, expain why you are interested in working in this research area (or with a specific mentor) and what you can contribute.
  * Optional: You can include your personal webpage for more details. 
* Next, illustrate what you want to gain from this experience and your future plan.
  * For Postdoc application: you may want to discuss your future reseach plan and your goal.
* Ending paragraph
  * Reiterate your enthusiasm for this opportunity.
  * Give a summary list of the materials you provided: CV/resume, [Optional: transcript, research statement, name of the references].

** It is important to note that the PhD program of Data Science at UVA operates through a general admission process instead of assigning mentors directly. Students will have the opportunity to choose their mentors in the second year. 
